# Using JSX

## ðŸ“ Your Notes

Elaborate on your learnings here in `src/exercise/03.md`
### JSX
- JSX is just a syntactic suger to create React elements => underneath it is using React.createElement('div', null, "Hello World") like statements.
- JSX is not JavaScript so it can't be compiled using browser or JS runtime. 
To run JSX we need a special compiler called "Babel".
- It is important to practice JSX to React.createElement compilation. If we can think its conversion in head, that would be great.
- To use React to render web pages we need three packages:
    - React: To create React Elements
    - ReactDOM: Take React Elements and convert it to DOM nodes to render it on webpages/browser
    - Babel: To compile JSX syntax into Javascript
- As babel is written in JavaScript, it can be compiled JSX at the browser itself, but it is for learning only
- In production, all the JS code is complied before you ship your application to the browser

### Interpolation
- Interpolation is insertion of something of some different nature into something else.
- It is very common practice in every language. Like writing CSS & JS in HTML using '\<style\>' and '\<script\>' tag resp, using template liternal to write JS inside string land
- IMP:   we can't use statements inside template literal OR JSX interpolation '{}'. Can only use expressions.
    - What are statements and expressions? : Expression is which result into(evaluates to) a value and statement is any imperative logic that you can apply for your program like if statements, declaring variables, loops, etc.
    - The reason for this is that: We can't pass statement as an argument to function call
    - example: \<div\>{someVariable}\</div\> => React.createElement('div', null, someVariable)
    - If you replace someVariable with some statement like if(), it doesn't hold good as an argument to a function call
    - BTW we can pass 'functions' as argument to a function call in JS. So using array.map or array.forEach as an expression is not an issue
    - Self note(chances of error): And if you have a doubt that how functions are evaluating as expressions? Bcoz they evaluate to returned value or undefined, if not returning any value

### Spread props
- Spread operator (...props) is syntactic sugar over Object.assign({}, props)
- Spreading props will be very helpful when there are lots of props and you don't want to define each prop
    - Also if you want to combined it with some already available props like id=""
- one more important thing if you want to define a prop as default like className="default" define it before {...props} like: \<div id="something" className="default" {...props} \>{someVariable}\</div\>
    - Bcoz if someone will provide 'className' so it will override the default prop and if someone doesn't provide it will take default prop

## Background

JSX is more intuitive than the raw React API and is easier to understand when
reading the code. It's fairly simple HTML-like syntactic sugar on top of the raw
React APIs:

```jsx
const ui = <h1 id="greeting">Hey there</h1>

// â†“ â†“ â†“ â†“ compiles to â†“ â†“ â†“ â†“

const ui = React.createElement('h1', {id: 'greeting', children: 'Hey there'})
```

Because JSX is not actually JavaScript, you have to convert it using something
called a code compiler. [Babel](https://babeljs.io) is one such tool.

ðŸ¦‰ Pro tip: If you'd like to see how JSX gets compiled to JavaScript,
[check out the online babel REPL here](https://babeljs.io/repl#?builtIns=App&code_lz=MYewdgzgLgBArgSxgXhgHgCYIG4D40QAOAhmLgBICmANtSGgPRGm7rNkDqIATtRo-3wMseAFBA&presets=react&prettier=true).

If you can train your brain to look at JSX and see the compiled version of that
code, you'll be MUCH more effective at reading and using it! I strongly
recommend you give this some intentional practice.

## Exercise

Production deploys:

- [Exercise](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/exercise/03.html)
- [Final](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.html)

Normally you'll compile all of your code at build-time before you ship your
application to the browser, but because Babel is written in JavaScript we can
actually run it _in_ the browser to compile our code on the fly and that's what
we'll do in this exercise.

So we'll include a script tag for Babel, then we'll update our own script tag to
tell Babel to compile it for us on the fly. When you're done, you should notice
the compiled version of the code appears in the `<head>` of the DOM (which you
can inspect using DevTools).

## Extra Credit

### 1. ðŸ’¯ interpolate className and children

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-1.html)

"Interpolation" is defined as "the insertion of something of a different nature
into something else."

Let's take template literals for example:

```javascript
const greeting = 'Sup'
const subject = 'World'
const message = `${greeting} ${subject}`
```

See if you can figure out how to extract the `className` (`"container"`) and
`children` (`"Hello World"`) to variables and interpolate them in the JSX.

```jsx
const className = 'container'
const children = 'Hello World'
const element = <div className="hmmm">how do I make this work?</div>
```

ðŸ“œ The react docs for JSX are pretty good:
[https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

Here are a few sections of particular interest for this extra credit:

- [https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#embedding-expressions-in-jsx](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#embedding-expressions-in-jsx)
- [https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#specifying-attributes-with-jsx](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html#specifying-attributes-with-jsx)

### 2. ðŸ’¯ spread props

[Production deploy](http://react-fundamentals.netlify.app/isolated/final/03.extra-2.html)

What if I have an object of props that I want applied to the `div` like this:

```jsx
const children = 'Hello World'
const className = 'container'
const props = {children, className}
const element = <div /> // how do I apply props to this div?
```

If we were doing raw React APIs it would be:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', props)
```

Or, it could be written like this:

```jsx
const element = React.createElement('div', {...props})
```

See if you can figure out how to make that work with JSX.

ðŸ“œ [https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html#spread-attributes](https://reactjs.org/docs/jsx-in-depth.html#spread-attributes)

## ðŸ¦‰ Feedback

Fill out
[the feedback form](https://ws.kcd.im/?ws=React%20Fundamentals%20%E2%9A%9B&e=03%3A%20Using%20JSX&em=).
